>> Kyle Simpson: Let's talk about
== specifically with Booleans.
This is another one of those really
evil corner cases that you shouldn't do.
This is something that
you do a lot in code, and
it's something you should
definitely not do.
It's something you do because you're used
to doing this in other languages, and
here, it's gonna get you into trouble.
Okay, if you wanna check
if you want to allow
the Boolean coercion of
an array to be true.
In other words, you wanna say
its truthy sort of construct.
That is something that I'm okay with.
Some people are not okay with that.
But let's say that you do for the moment.
There's one way of doing it,
which is just just to do an if statement.
Allow the if statement to invoke the to
Boolean operation on the array, which,
in this case, is a lookup that says
the array is not on the table, so,
therefore, it's true.
That's a perfectly rational
implicit to Boolean coercion.
>> Kyle Simpson: But if you try to get
more clever and tricky with it and say,
well, if it's truthy,
then maybe what I ought to do
is do a double equals with true.
Well, now all of a sudden it doesn't work.
And by the way, it wouldn't
work with triple equals either.
Cuz the comparison with a Boolean to an
array is gonna go through a bunch of those
corner cases, which we've already
identified and we're about to re-identify.
And also it's gonna be equal to false.
So now you're gonna get the backwards
of what you would intuitively expect.
You think this thing is truthy,
it is not double equal to true, but
it is double equal to false.
And there's no question
that this is a gotcha.
But before I even explain the gotcha, my
answer to this is don't ever do a double,
or even in that case,
if you can avoid triple.
But definitely, never do a double equals
with true or a double equals with false.
Because there's no scenario where you
need to do a double equals with true or
double equals with false when you could
just do the to Boolean implicitly.
There's no case where that or
that is better.
And there's a bunch of cases where
it's worse, like this one, okay?
So let's explain how the == true fails but
the == false works.
Same steps, same algorithm.
We start with the top one.
Of course if workshop students,
we just do a to Boolean on it.
Line 4, we check for
the Boolean on it, and
if it matches great, in this case it does,
so we run that core branch.
But what happens when we're trying
to double equal it with true?
Well, we have a non-primitive
which need to became primitive, so
it becomes empty string.
We have an empty string and a true.
These are not the same type, so
they need to both become numbers.
One of them becomes 0, which should
have been NaN, the other one becomes 1.
And those two numbers are definitely not
equal, so we don't run that code branch.
In the other code branch
we do the exact same thing.
We start off with workshop
students = false.
We get to a string = false,
which becomes a 0 compared to a 0, and
those 0s are equal to true.
That's a nonsensical outcome to
what was a nonsensical construct.
You don't need to double equals to true,
or
double equals to false,
allow the to Boolean to happen implicitly.
So yet again,
what I'm saying is that implicit is
sometimes much better than explicit.
In this case, the implicit doesn't
have the gotcha and the explicit does.
>> Speaker 1: This is maybe too broad a
question, too generic, but in other cases
where you would go a step further and
rather than running if workshop students.
You would check if and
then method all workshop students,
checking the presence of .length
to make sure it's a string or
an array, or
you're checking other type specific.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
the scenario of this construct is
I only wanna know whether it's set or not.
And I know that it can either be unset or
it can be set to an array, that was
the mental construct of this scenario.
So that would have been obvious by
the rest of the surrounding code or
at least hopefully obvious from
the rest of the surrounding code.
If we didn't know that, if we knew that
it could be unset, or it could be set and
it could be set to a variety of different
things, maybe an array, maybe an object,
maybe a string.
Then we would wanna do some sort of
deeper checking than just the to Boolean
coercion.
That might be the first step to
check that it is actually set, and
then the next check is to check
something about its identity.
And there's various ways
that you could check it.
You could use a type of operator,
if that was appropriate.
You could do what you're referring to,
which is called duck typing,
check to see if a method is on it,
you could do an actual utility like
array.isarray to check if it's in array.
There's a variety of other things
that you might wanna do if you
cared to specifically
know it was an array.
But the setup I have here is that we
would already know it's an array,
cuz we already see line 1.
It can either be set or
it can be an array,
and it can't be anything else in between.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, and I guess my
question is if you would typically advise
against packing it like duck typing
into line 3 into that check?
Trying to combine both.
>> Kyle Simpson: No,
that's not what I'm saying.
What I'm saying is I would do those if for
some reason I couldn't restrict
myself to know that it's
either an unset or an array.
I would prefer a smaller surface
area with fewer necessary checks.
I would prefer to design this code so
that it's not so polymorphic.
It's either unset entirely or
it's an array.
But if for some reason I couldn't
design my code in that way,
then I would put those extra
checks into the if statement.
Does that help?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, that's great.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.